Extend the prebuild ChangeLog entry (#4010)
gitpod-io/website: src/content/changelog/prebuilds-have-moved.md

> **Deprecation:** Prebuild settings in the `.gitpod.yml` are deprecated. All existing `.gitpod.yml` settings will apply until prebuilds are manually enabled in project settings. <br /> <br /> See [configuring Prebuilds via .gitpod.yml](/docs/integrations/github-gitpod-yaml) for archived documentation.

### The way `init` tasks work is changing, here's what you need to know:

When you open a workspace and Gitpod finds an existing prebuild for an older commit, Gitpod will start the workspace and then run the `init` steps from the `.gitpod.yml` again on top of the existing prebuild. Gitpod will only use prebuilds that have an identical `.gitpod.yml` as your current commit. This new behavior works best for you when your `init` steps:

> 1. Can be executed repeatedly, while always producing the same end-state in the file system.

Author: Good point. I've added `for a given reposiotry state` to clarify. The intention set the expectation of idempotency in non-academic terms. If the sentence has become too clunky, we can remove it.

> 2. Execute quickly (e.g. process changes incrementally).

Author: yes. I've fixed that.

> If the above is not true for your project, you can set the commit interval prebuild setting to `1` to execute your prebuilds for every commit. Alternatively, you can use a conditional to check if it's the second run of a prebuild, or not, like so:

Author: >  it does not help in those cases where the prebuild is still running.
Makese sense. I did not consider this when I wrote the paragraph. 

> Also the fix really is to update your init task to make it leverage the file system cache when executed again.

What recommendation do we want to give to folks who have a slow incremental build or no incremental build at all? E.g. Maven or code generators.

> If the above is not true for your project, you can set the commit interval prebuild setting to `1` to execute your prebuilds for every commit. Alternatively, you can use a conditional to check if it's the second run of a prebuild, or not, like so:

Reviewer: We don't have a solution for that, but can provide the same experience they would have locally. 
It's important to understand that our previous model did not solve this either in practice, because prebuilds are usually not ready on reasonably active projects when you want them. We did start from scratch in those cases, which also does the dependency installation.

> If the above is not true for your project, you can set the commit interval prebuild setting to `1` to execute your prebuilds for every commit. Alternatively, you can use a conditional to check if it's the second run of a prebuild, or not, like so:

Author: > because prebuilds are usually not ready on reasonably active projects when you want them.
Good point :/ 

I guess then the solution is to wrap non-incremental tools into something that runs them only when their input files change.

> **Deprecation:** Prebuild settings in the `.gitpod.yml` are deprecated. All existing `.gitpod.yml` settings will apply until prebuilds are manually enabled in project settings. <br /> <br /> See [configuring Prebuilds via .gitpod.yml](/docs/integrations/github-gitpod-yaml) for archived documentation.

> ### `init` steps from `.gitpod.yml` learn a new trick: Update Prebuilds.
> 
> When you open a workspace and the prebuild is older than the current commit, Gitpod will run the `init` steps from the `.gitpod.yml` again to update all derived files, such as downloaded dependencies and compiled code, and thereby ensure that your workspace is fully up-to-date and ready-to-code.
> 
> This "update" strategy became possible because we see that modern build tools have become excellent at quickly and incrementally updating a projects when there is a small set of incoming changes.
> 
> This new feature will work best for you if your `init` steps
> 
> -   can be executed a second time. This is the case for all modern build tools that embrace idempotency.
> -   finish quickly when executed on a small set of file changes.
> 
> If the above is not true for your `init` steps, feel free to disable the feature by chanigng the project setting to prebuild every commit.
> 
> If you have code that should only run when creating prebuild, but not when updating a prebuild, you can use a marker file to distinguish the two cases:

Reviewer 2: Some word smithing on the above. 

```suggestion
### The way `init` tasks work is changing, here's what you need to know:

When you open a workspace and Gitpod finds an existing prebuild that has an identical `.gitpod.yml`, Gitpod will start the workspace and then re-run the `init` steps from the `.gitpod.yml` again on top of the existing prebuild image. This new behavior works best for you when your `init` steps:

1. Can be executed repeatedly, without side-effects. 
2. Execute quickly (e.g. execute a small set of file changes).

If the above is not true for your project, you can set the commit interval prebuild setting to `1` to execute your prebuilds for every commit. Alternatively, you can use a conditional to check if it's the second run of a prebuild, or not, like so: 
```
```
